---
layout: page
header:
   image_fullwidth: title.jpg
sidebar: left
subheadline: "Chalmers Security Seminar"
title: "Selene: Voting with Transparent Verification and Coercion Mitigation"
teaser: "In conventional cryptographic E2E verification schemes, voters are
 provided with encrypted ballots that enable them to confirm that their
 vote is accurately included in the tally. Technically this is very
 appealing, but ..."
tags: #tags are like keywords
    - csstalk
categories: talk
image:

---
**Who:** Peter Y A Ryan (University of Luxembourg)\\
**When:**  14:30, June 8   \\
**Where:** room EDIT 81033\\
**Title: {{ page.title }}**

**Abstract:**\\
In conventional cryptographic E2E verification schemes, voters are
 provided with encrypted ballots that enable them to confirm that their
 vote is accurately included in the tally. Technically this is very
 appealing, but voters, election officials etc. need to understand some
 rather subtle arguments to appreciate the integrity and ballot
 secrecy guarantees provided by such mechanisms.

 A simple way to achieve a degree of verifiability and ballot privacy is
 to provide each voter with a unique, private tracking number. Votes are
 posted on a bulletin board in the clear along with their tracking
 number. Thus voters can visit the WBB confirm that there is an entry
 with their tracking number showing the correct vote. The beauty of this
 approach is its simplicity and understandability. There are, however,
 two drawbacks: we must ensure that trackers are unique and a coercer can
 demand that the voter reveal her tracking number. It is interesting to
 note that the coercer must ask for the tracker before posting. If he
 asks after posting the voter has a simple strategy to fool him: just
 reads off a tracker number with the coercer's required vote from the WBB.

 In this talk, I describe a scheme that addresses both of these problems.
 The main idea is to close off the coercer's window of opportunity by
 ensuring that the voters only learn their tracker numbers after votes
 have been posted. Notification of the trackers must provide high
 assurance but be deniable. The resulting scheme provides
 receipt-freeness but also provides a more immediately understandable
 form of verifiability: voters can find their vote, in the clear, in the
 tally identified by their secret tracker.

 However, there is a sting in the tail: a coerced voter might light on
 the coercer's tracker, or the coercer may simply claim that the tracker
 is his. I describe some elaborations of the basic scheme to counter this
 problem.

 http://eprint.iacr.org/2015/1105.pdf


## Previous Talks
{: .t60 }
{% include list-posts tag='csstalk'%}
