---
layout: page
header:
   image_fullwidth: title.jpg
sidebar: left
subheadline: "Chalmers Security Seminar"
title: "Enhancing the COWL W3C Standard"
teaser: "Web applications are often composed by resources such as JavaScript
written, and provided, by different parties. This reuse leads to questions concerning security,
and whether one can trust that third-party code will not leak users’ sensitive information.
As it stands today, these concerns are well-founded."
tags: #tags are like keywords
    - csstalk
categories: talk
image:

---
**Who:** Niklas Andreasson\\
**When:**  10:00, June 8 \\
**Where:** room EDIT 8103\\
**Title: {{ page.title }}**

**Abstract:**\\
Web applications are often composed by resources such as JavaScript
written, and provided, by different parties. This reuse leads to questions concerning security,
and whether one can trust that third-party code will not leak users’ sensitive information.
As it stands today, these concerns are well-founded.

With the web’s current security primitives there is a trade-off between
developer flexibility and user privacy. If developers choose to include untrusted code then
users’ privacy suffers. On the other hand, if developers abstain from reusing third-party code,
user privacy is favoured, on the cost of developer flexibility. This trade-off can
partly be attributed to the fact that the security primitives are discretionary, where untrusted
code either is granted or denied access to data. After code has been granted access to data
there is no further attempt to verify that the data is used properly.

In 2014, Stefan et al. proposed a security mechanism which called COWL
(Confinement of Origin Web Labels). COWL is a mandatory access control
which is able to let untrusted code compute on sensitive information, while confining
it. Through this, COWL is able to address some of the shortcomings of the web’s current
security mechanisms, and in the end effectively eliminate the trade-off that exists. Since
the introduction of COWL, it has gone on to become a W3C standard.

This thesis evaluates the COWL W3C specification by deploying it in
Mozilla Firefox. While COWL aims to mainly address information leaks caused by bugs, we
bring the specification towards addressing malicious code by highlighting two
covert channels: one due to the browser layout engine, and another due to browser
optimizations. Furthermore, we implement two case studies which shows how COWL can be used, and as
part of this, note some practical problems.Through the thesis we managed to make
contributions to the COWL W3C specification.

## Previous Talks
{: .t60 }
{% include list-posts tag='csstalk'%}
