---
layout: page
header:
   image_fullwidth: title.jpg
sidebar: left
subheadline: "Chalmers Security Seminar"
title: "Formal Security Analysis of Mobile and Web Applications"
teaser: "In this talk, I will present two ongoing projects on the formal verification of security properties for mobile and web applications."
tags: #tags are like keywords
    - csstalk
categories: talk
image:

---
**Who:** [Matteo Maffei](https://www.sps.cs.uni-saarland.de/maffei/)\\
**When:**  Thursday, {{ page.date | date_to_long_string }}, 13:30-14:30\\
**Where:** Room 3364\\
**Title: {{ page.title }}**


**Abstract:**\\
In this talk, I will present two ongoing projects on the formal
verification of security properties for mobile and web
applications.

In the first part, I will present HornDroid, a novel technique for the
static analysis of information flow properties in Android
applications. The core idea underlying HornDroid is to use Horn
clauses for soundly abstracting the semantics of Android applications
and to express security properties as a set of proof obligations that
are automatically discharged by SMT solving. This approach makes it
possible to fine-tune the analysis in order to achieve a high degree
of precision while still relying on off-the-shelf verification tools,
thereby automatically leveraging the recent advances in this field. As
a matter of fact, HornDroid outperforms in precision state-of-the-art
Android static analysis tools on benchmarks proposed by the community,
besides being orders of magnitude faster. Moreover, HornDroid is the
first static analysis tool for Android to come with a formal proof of
soundness: besides yielding correctness assurances, this proof allowed
us to identify some critical corner-cases that affect the soundness
guarantees provided by some of the previous static analysis tools for
Android.

In the second part, I will present Michrome, a security enforcement
tool for web applications based on micro-policies. Micro-policies,
originally proposed to implement hardware-level security monitors,
constitute a flexible and general enforcement technique, based on
assigning security tags to system components and taking security
actions based on dynamic checks over these tags. In this work, we
present the first application of micro-policies to web security, by
proposing a core browser model supporting them and studying its
effectiveness at securing web sessions. In our view, web session
security requirements are expressed in terms of a simple, purely
declarative information flow policy, which is then automatically
translated into a micro-policy implementing it. This leads to a
browser-side enforcement mechanism which is elegant, sound and
flexible, while being accessible to web developers. We show how a
large class of attacks against web sessions can be uniformly and
effectively prevented by the adoption of this approach. Since we
carefully designed micro-policies with ease of deployment in mind, we
are also able to implement our proposal as a Google Chrome extension,
Michrome: our experiments show that Michrome can be easily configured
to enforce strong security policies without breaking the websites
functionality.

**Biographical Note**

Matteo Maffei is professor at Saarland University and CISPA, where he
leads the Secure and Privacy-preserving Systems group. He received his
Ph.D. in Computer Science from the University of Venice in 2006.
Matteo’s research interests are in the area of formal methods for
security analysis, with a focus on cryptographic protocols, mobile
security, and web security, as well as privacy-enhancing technologies,
in particular zero-knowledge proofs, oblivious RAM, and differential
privacy. He was granted the Emmy Noether fellowship from the German
research foundation in 2009, he served in the programme committee of
more than 40 conferences, and he is currently the regular columnist on
security and privacy of the ACM SIGLOG newsletter.ill be summarized and I will discuss future research directions on data anonymization.

## Previous Talks
{: .t60 }
{% include list-posts tag='csstalk'%}
