---
layout: page
header:
   image_fullwidth: title.jpg
sidebar: left
subheadline: "Chalmers Security Seminar"
title: "Historical Analyses of the Client-Side Web Security and How to tell people they have an issue"
teaser: "To better understand how the eco system evolved, we conducted
a historical study of the last 20 years of the Web using data from the
Internet Archive..."
tags: #tags are like keywords
    - csstalk
categories: talk
image:

---
**Who:** room EDIT 8103\\
**When:**  9:30-10:30{{ page.date | date_to_long_string }}\\
**Where:**   room EDIT 8103 \\
**Title: {{ page.title }}**

**Abstract:**\\
In this talk, I will present two lines of research I am
currently pursuing. On the one hand, my work focusses on client-side Web
security. To better understand how the eco system evolved, we conducted
a historical study of the last 20 years of the Web using data from the
Internet Archive. Given that the Archive stores all client-side code as
well as relevant header information, this enabled us to analyze trends
over the last years, which allow us to draw conclusions on how future
security mechanisms should be implemented.

On the other hand, while as a community we have become very good at
discovering vulnerabilities at scale (regardless of Web or network level
flaws), informing the affected parties about the issues has only been
treated as a side note in previous research. To understand how such
notifications can be conducted at scale, we conducted an experiment in
which we notified more than 44,000 vulnerable domains, using different
communication channels. Our work shows that reaching administrators is
the biggest roadblock to a successful notification. In my talk, I will
also discuss some of the technical and human challenges we face when
notifying at scale, moreover highlighting which of these areas require
further research.

## Previous Talks
{: .t60 }
{% include list-posts tag='csstalk'%}
