---
layout: page
header:
   image_fullwidth: title.jpg
sidebar: left
subheadline: "Chalmers Security Seminar"
title: "The Simplest Multi-key Linearly Homomorphic Signature Scheme"
teaser: "We consider the problem of outsourcing computation on data authenticated by different users. 
Our aim is to describe and implement the simplest possible solution to provide data integrity in cloud-based scenarios."
tags: #tags are like keywords
    - csstalk
categories: talk
image:

---
**Who:** Elena Pagnin from Aarhus University, Denmark \\
**When:**  10:00 - 11:00 Thursday {{ page.date | date_to_long_string }}\\
**Where:**  Room 8103, EDIT building.\\
**Title: {{ page.title }}**

**Abstract:**\\
We consider the problem of outsourcing computation on data authenticated by different users. 
Our aim is to describe and implement the simplest possible solution to provide data integrity in cloud-based scenarios. 
Concretely, our multi-key linearly homomorphic signature scheme (mklhs) allows users to upload signed data on a server, 
and at any later point in time any third party can query the server to compute a linear combination of data authenticated 
by different users and check the correctness of the returned result. Our construction generalizes Boneh et al.’s linearly 
homomorphic signature scheme (PKC’09 [7]) to the multi-key setting and relies on basic tools of pairing-based cryptography. 
Compared to existing multi-key homomorphic signature schemes, our mklhs is a conceptually simple and elegant direct construction,
which trades-off privacy for efficiency. The simplicity of our approach leads us to a very efficient construction that enjoys 
significantly shorter signatures and higher performance than previous proposals. Finally, we implement mklhs using two 
different pairing-friendly curves at the 128-bit security level, a Barreto-Lynn-Scott curve and a Barreto-Naehrig curve. 
Our benchmarks illustrate interesting performance trade-offs between these parameters, involving the cost of exponentiation and 
hashing inpairing groups. 
We provide a discussion on such trade-offs that can be useful to other implementers of pairing-based protocols.
## Previous Talks
{: .t60 }
{% include list-posts tag='csstalk'%}
