---
layout: page
header:
   image_fullwidth: title.jpg
sidebar: left
subheadline: "Chalmers Security Seminar"
title: "When Good Components Go Bad: Formally Secure Compilation Despite Dynamic Compromise"
teaser: "We propose a new formal criterion for evaluating secure
  compartmentalization schemes for unsafe languages like C and C++,
  expressing end-to-end security guarantees for software components that
  may become compromised after encountering undefined behavior---for
  example, by accessing an array out of bounds."
tags: #tags are like keywords
    - csstalk
categories: talk
image:

---
**Who:** Catalin Hritcu from Inria Paris, France \\
**When:**  14:00 - 15:00 Thursday {{ page.date | date_to_long_string }}\\
**Where:**  Room ES52, EDIT building.\\
**Title: {{ page.title }}**

**Abstract:**\\

We propose a new formal criterion for evaluating secure
compartmentalization schemes for unsafe languages like C and C++,
expressing end-to-end security guarantees for software components that
may become compromised after encountering undefined behavior---for
example, by accessing an array out of bounds. Our criterion is the
first to model dynamic compromise in a system of mutually distrustful
components with clearly specified privileges. It articulates how each
component should be protected from all the others---in particular,
from components that have encountered undefined behavior and become
compromised.
To illustrate the model, we construct a secure compilation chain for a
small unsafe language with buffers, procedures, and components,
targeting a simple abstract machine with built-in
compartmentalization. We propose a novel proof technique and give a
machine-checked proof in Coq that this compiler satisfies our secure
compilation criterion. Finally, we show that the protection guarantees
offered by the compartmentalized abstract machine can be achieved at
the machine-code level using either software fault isolation or a
tag-based reference monitor.

**Speaker Bio:**\\

Catalin Hritcu (https://prosecco.gforge.inria.fr/personal/hritcu) is a
researcher at Inria Paris where he works on security foundations. He
is particularly interested in formal methods for security (secure
compilation, compartmentalization, memory safety, security protocols,
integrity, information flow), programming languages (program
verification, proof assistants, type systems, semantics, formal
metatheory, certified tools, property-based testing), and the design
and verification of security-critical systems (reference monitors,
secure compilation chains, secure hardware). He was awarded an ERC
Starting Grant on formally secure compilation
(https://secure-compilation.github.io), and is also actively involved
in the design of the F* verification system
(https://www.fstar-lang.org/), which is used for building a formally
verified HTTPS stack (https://project-everest.github.io). Catalin
received a PhD from Saarland University in Saarbrücken, a Habilitation
from ENS Paris, and was previously also a Research Associate at
University of Pennsylvania and a Visiting Researcher at Microsoft
Research Redmond.

## Previous Talks
{: .t60 }
{% include list-posts tag='csstalk'%}
