---
layout: page
header:
   image_fullwidth: title.jpg
sidebar: left
subheadline: "Chalmers Security Seminar"
title: "Mechanized Logical Relations for Termination-Insensitive Noninterference"
teaser: "We present an expressive information-flow control type system with recursive types, existential types, label polymorphism, and impredicative type polymorphism for a higher-order programming language with higher-order state."
tags: #tags are like keywords
    - csstalk
categories: talk
image:

---
**Who:** Simon Oddershede Gregersen from Aarhus University, Denmark \\
**When:**  13:15 - 14:15 Wednesday {{ page.date | date_to_long_string }}\\
**Where:**  [Zoom](https://chalmers.zoom.us/j/68006467638) \\
**Title: {{ page.title }}**

**Abstract:**\\

We present an expressive information-flow control type system with recursive types, existential types, label polymorphism, and 
impredicative type polymorphism for a higher-order programming language with higher-order state. We give a novel semantic model 
of this type system and show that well-typed programs satisfy termination-insensitive noninterference. Our semantic approach supports
compositional integration of syntactically well-typed and syntactically ill-typed---but semantically sound---components, which we demonstrate 
through several interesting examples. We define our model using logical relations on top of the Iris program logic framework. To capture 
termination-insensitivity, we develop a novel re-usable theory of Modal Weakest Preconditions. We formalize all of our theory and examples
on top of the Iris program logic framework in the Coq proof assistant.

This is joint work with Johan Bay, Amin Timany, and Lars Birkedal from Aarhus University and a paper has been conditionally accepted at POPL 2021. 
A preprint of it is available at [https://cs.au.dk/~gregersen/papers/2021-tiniris.pdf](https://cs.au.dk/~gregersen/papers/2021-tiniris.pdf) if interested.


## Previous Talks
{: .t60 }
{% include list-posts tag='csstalk'%}
